---
title: Elsewhere
permalink: wiki/Elsewhere/
layout: wiki
---

Web Coding
----------

[The World Wide Web Consortum](http://www.w3.org) develops and maintains
standards for Internet protocols. Excellent reference for expert
programmers (not for the young learners!)

[W3 Schools](http://www.w3schools.org) is devoted to making
instructional sites for coding by various W3 standards. The “quick 'n
dirty” version of the W3 standards, easier to read, find, and search
than the actual standards whitepapers, but not always completely up to
date or completely extensive.

Open Source Related
-------------------

[KernelTrap](http://www.kerneltrap.org): news site about the Linux and
\*BSD kernels. A lot more fun than grepping through your mbox archive of
the various kernel mailing lists for important info.

[The GNOME Desktop](http://www.gnome.org): an open source suite of
software designed to provide a good desktop experience while also
providing a suite of developer libraries to integrate applications
further into the desktop.

[The Mono Project](http://www.mono-project.org): an open source
implementation of the .NET framework. Provides a whole host of
programming languages that can be compiled and run as managed code with
the Mono runtime. As with most open source projects, it's a work in
progress, but it's really taking off these days (I currently write a LOT
of C\# code). See the [Banshee Project](http://www.banshee-project.org)
for an excellent show of it's capabilities.

[FreeDesktop.Org](http://www.freedesktop.org): dedicated to supporting
unification of free desktops (including Gnome, KDE, etc) by providing
ground for setting standards, as well as hosting various software
projects.

[The Linux Documentation Project](http://www.tldp.org): a great resource
for all the little HOWTO's that you'd ever need - from compiling a linux
kernel, setting up various system services/daemons, to making grilled
cheese. A lot of the documentation is showing it's age but it is a great
collection of resources.

Other Places Relating to Me
---------------------------

[Sting](http://sting.vanstaveren.us:8000/), my trusty
webserver/firewall/network server. Named after Bilbo/Frodo's sword that
glows when the orcs are near, this box keeps both itself and my other
computers safe and sound. It also provides a few public services that my
ISP hasn't discovered yet. Unfortunately I cannot run my webserver on
port 80 - so it's on port 8000. There you will find links to a ViewVC of
my local subversion repository, and a nifty patch browser that I put
together for when I want to host a patch.
