I've been all over Michigan on our bike rides - I think you should probably just coat Michigan in little shiny stars considering all the cities we've stayed in on various bike rides!  Big stars on Kalamazoo, East Lansing where I went to a lot of RHA meetings, Saginaw where Alli went to school, and Ann Arbor where I've visited a few times.

= In the US I've also been to... =
* Illinois
** Chicago (obviously!) and lots of suburbs
** Maybe you can find Aurora or Oswego on your map; Sarah lives in Oswego and by best buddy Michelle lives in Aurora.
** Lena (northwest in the state) - stayed here on a bicycling trip
** Union - stayed here on a bicycling trip
* Wisconsin
** Door county biking we've all done
** SAGBRAW ride which dad can find you the route for
** Madison - went to Adam's frisbee tournament here
** Portage - went skiing here a few years ago
** Rode my bike (alone!) through southern Wisconsin on my way back from Dubuque
** Madeline Island, north Wisconsin
* Iowa - a state I've only been to on bicycle!
** Dubuque - rode to here from Lena, Illinois
* Missouri
** St. Louis - went to a conference here with RHA
* Ohio
** We've been to some family get-togethers here but I don't remember cities very well...
** Matt and I have been to Oakshade (in Wauseon) a few too many times for our health :)
* Tennessee
** Nashville - on a road trip a few years back with work buddies
** Chattanooga - the second best named city in the country, next to Kalamazoo, also on the road trip
** The tiny town of McCaysville, TN where I rode through the three corners of Georgie, North Carolina, and Tennessee during a 100-mile ride starting in Georgia
* North Carolina - as above
* Georgia
** Atlanta, where Mel lives and I went on our road trip
** Talking Rock, the tiny little town in northern Georgia where I camped for a few days and rode a bunch of miles...
** up towards Ellijay and Blue Ridge.  I didn't have the right clothes so I bought a biking jersey from the Ellijay bicycle club.  It's too small but it helped keep me cool!
* Alabama
** Adam's military graduation which was in...Mobile, maybe?
* Florida
** The band & orchestra trip was to Orlando I think
** We also went here when we were kids but I don't remember where!
* Maryland
** Cycle Across Maryland bike ride
* Washington DC trip in high school
* New York
** Syracuse for a RHA conference
** I flew into NYC once to drive up north to a client in White Plains
** I drove 50 feet from Connecticut but my co-workers were anxious to get to the airport so we didn't go over to Connecticut.
* Arizona
** Phoenix on a bicycling vacation
** Sedona where I went hiking one day
** up to the Grand Canyon on the south side, even though I only saw it at night!
* California
** Irvine to visit Marie twice, both times with a bicycle, one time I didn't get drunk
** Ojai, a tiny town east of Santa Barbara, where I went hiking and a bit of bicycling
 
Not counting any silly airport stopovers, those don't count.  The only thing I can testify about Newark, New Jersey is that Sarah gets really giddy when you call her from there to tell her you'll be in Chicago in three hours and not three days like she was expecting.
 
= Outside of the US... =
* Canada
** Sarnia for a camping trip with the Boy Scouts
** Ontario bicycle trip...I don't remember what it was called!  I remember we rode east through Kitchener, Hamilton, and ended at Niagra Falls
** I think we also went on a family trip to Niagra Falls?  Or am I making things up? :)
* England
** London - I think I've flown to London more times than I've flown to any other city in the world!
** Birmingham - northern England, where I went to the GUADEC conference in...2007 I think? My first trip outside of North America and first trip that needed a passport!
** Brighton and Hastings - south coast of England, on a hike
** Also been hiking all over Surrey, which is the area south-southwest of London and also east to Southend-on-Sea for an evening hike which was an adventure.
** Cambridge and toured the university
** And to a few small towns north of London to visit co-workers - Stevenage (near where Steve Nuttall grew up, yes the name is uncanny) and Luton, where a former employee of mine is from.
** To Bath, which is near Bristol on the map, and yes mom we passed Swindon on our way.
* France
** Paris for 24 hours and 10 minutes according to my train ticket, to see the Tour, via the Eurostar under the English Channel.
* Belgium
** Brussels two times to visit the Coca Cola headquarters there, unfortunately these were day trips with work so I only had lunch breaks to go see the city.  Also went on the Eurostar which went under the English Channel to France and then over to Brussels.
* Netherlands
** Amsterdam (north Holland)
** Groningen (north-east Netherlands) to see the Vuelta a Espana
** Biked from Amsterdam to The Hague...
** ...to Rotterdam
** ...through Monster where Dad was born
** ...down to Hoek van Holland, the south tip of Holland
** ...back to Amsterdam :)
* China
** Shanghai obviously
** Suzhou, a small town outside of Shanghai, on a day trip
* Japan
** Tokyo for an office visit
** Nikko for an overnight and hiking a nearby mountain (I need to post pictures and my map to my blog, it's the most challenging / amazing hike I've ever done, and possibly a reason why mono caught up with me!)
* Singapore
** To our office on the marina front
** To the rainforest where I went hiking
* Malaysia
** Kuala Lumpur to our office in Mont Kiara
** Didn't really manage to have much fun this trip unfortunately, but I will next time!
* Australia
** Sydney to visit the office twice, once without a sprained ankle
* Hong Kong
** Where I became a true international cash launderer
** ...with a sprained ankle.