Here are a few professional or organizational webistes that I have worked on in the past.  If there is no link, odds are that the page has been changed since I used to work on it and I have not created a separate copy for demo uses.

[http://portfolio-wass.vanstaveren.us/ WASS - Web-based Advising Scheduling System] - my senior design project.  Since this code technically belongs to the University, there's no demo username/password and I will only give this out to prospective employers.  This site was put together in a real hurry - only about six weeks of 10-hour-a-week during the development phase and a very short testing & bug-hunting phase.  The CEAS Advising & Admissions office has been using this application during Summer, 2006 as their primary scheduling system.  Source code can be made available to prospective employers.

[http://www.spectrumprinters.com/ Spectrum Printers, Inc.] - I didn't design the layout, but the entire code was reworked in my years at Spectrum for a PHP template system and everything.  Source code can be made available at request but it is copyrighted by Spectrum Printers, Inc.

'''The Residence Hall Association''' - This actually isn't my site anymore, but I'll get online an old copy of the one I wrote.

'''MORHA 2004 Conference''' - Casey Hunt made the original design, but I made it a bit better, and I wrote the whole registration system for it.  This site has since been moved for future conferences, but I'll put online a copy of the site that I did eventually.