[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Compatibility|Compatibility]] |
[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/FAQ|FAQ]] |
[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Icons|Icons]] |
[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Known Bugs|Known Bugs]] |
[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Patches|Patches]] |
[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Playlists|Playlists]] |
[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/To Do|To Do]]

==About MTP==

Check out the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_Transfer_Protocol Media Transfer Protocol] page on [http://www.wikipedia.org Wikipedia].

MTP stands for the Media Transfer Protocol.  While it is a standard created and used almost solely by Microsoft, it is becoming a popular interface for newer Digital Audio Players.  Seeing this growth in MTP players, the need for an open-source implementation became necessary.  Thus, a handful of projects were born to try to communicate with these devices.  libgphoto2 made some pokes & prods at MTP devices, and the libmtp project was established by some of the libnjb/gnomad2 developers in the desire to support these newer devices.  Since then, libmtp and libgphoto2 have joined forces and collaborated to help each other out.  As of right now, they are basically the same base of code with two different interfaces, and were originally forked from the same base of code (libptp2).

Banshee.Dap.Mtp uses [http://www.gphoto.org libgphoto2].

==Supported Devices==

Check out the [[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Compatibility|compatibility]] page.  [[Contact]] me if there are changes to be made to this list!

==How to install==

Sometimes I keep some patches against Banshee CVS for MTP.  If so, you can find them on the [[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Patches|MTP Patches]] page.

===Remove old packages===

First, be sure that you have removed any distribution packaged software such as libgphoto2, gphoto2, and banshee.  If you fail to do this, the installation will most likely have problems.

===Packages to have / Prerequisites===

Please be sure that you have all companion -dev/-devel packages installed.  Configure scripts will fail if you are missing them - and they will act like you are missing the library itself.

* Mono and all it's devel packages.
** Ubuntu Dapper:
*** libmono0
*** libmono-dev
*** mono
*** mono-common
*** mono-devel
*** mono-mcs
* libltdl
** libltdl
** libltdl-dev
* libusb - BE WARNED: libusb 0.1.12 is KNOWN to cause troubles.  Use libusb 0.1.11 wherever possible
** libusb
** libusb-dev
* libexif
** libexif
** libexif-dev

===Grabbing the latest libgphoto2===

libgphoto2-sharp is now installed directly out of the libgphoto2 subversion tree.  In the future (2.2.2 hopefully) libgphoto2 will distribute with the -sharp binding, but for now you will need to work with a svn version.

Snag yourself a copy of libgphoto2 from subversion:

   svn co https://svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/gphoto/trunk/libgphoto2

and build it, like normal:

  ./autogen.sh

If you get an error like [[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/FAQ#Q:_What_does_this_mess_mean_when_I_run_autogen.sh_in_libgphoto2.3F|this]], be sure to have libltdl installed.

  ./configure

Watch the output of ./configure to make sure that the csharp bindings are enabled.  It should have a line in it something like:

  Bindings:             csharp

then, just do the usual:

  make && sudo make install && sudo ldconfig

To get around an ugly bug that we have with libgphoto2_port's disk driver, be sure to remove it:

  sudo rm /usr/local/lib/libgphoto2_port/0.6.1/disk.*

Libgphoto2 and it's C# bindings should now be installed!

===Installing gphoto2 to test libgphoto2===

The <code>gphoto2</code> command line tool is the easiest way to test that libgphoto2 can find and access your MTP device.  It's contained in the gphoto svn repository.  You know the drill -- grab and install it as follows:

  svn co https://svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/gphoto/trunk/gphoto2
  cd gphoto2
  ./autogen.sh
  ./configure
  make
  sudo make install

Once it's installed, test to see if gphoto2 can find your MTP device:

  gphoto2 -L

It should list all the files & folders on your device.  If you get any errors as this point, you can safely assume that you will have trouble and that the Banshee DAP interface will not be happy.  Regardless, you can trudge on!

If you have any issues at this point, post a debug output to [http://www.pastebin.us pastebin.us] and hit up irc.gnome.org/#banshee and ask trick for help.  Optionally, if it looks more like an issue with the MTP (PTP2) driver, you can ask on irc.freenode.net/#gphoto, but ask nicely as this driver is new and the developers are busy folks.

If it's working great, lets try it in Banshee!

====OPTIONAL: HAL/hotplug info files install====

Please '''take note''': '''I HAVE NOT TESTED ANY OF THIS.  IT IS PROVIDED ONLY FOR REFERENCE IN DESPERATE SITUATIONS.'''  You Have Been Warned!  If you break your hotplug or HAL from this and are now reading this statement for the first time, take it as a lesson in life: READ the documentation, and then run whatever crazy command (or in Hollywood-speak, ask questions FIRST and shoot SECOND)

'''SYMPTOM:'''
<code>gphoto2 -L</code> returns "Permission denied", "Could not grab device", "Operation not permitted", or a similar seemingly permissions related error.  <code>gphoto2</code> and <code>Banshee</code> and MTP support works as root, but not as a regular user.

'''INFO:'''
If you're trying to get gphoto2 from the command line to work, or Banshee is giving you permissions errors, these commands might help.  They are meant only for users who understand (somewhat) what they do and know that this is necessary.  It's possible to cheat at this - before you install libgphoto2 from svn, just install libgphoto2 from your distribution and uninstall it.  It might leave these files behind as they are not troublesome, and you'll be all set.  On Gentoo, when you remove a package, it does not uninstall entries in /etc so I've never had to run any of these commands by hand.

These commands were taken directly from the gentoo ebuild for 2.2.1-r1.  Note that your prefix (/usr versus /usr/local) and your libdir (lib versus lib64 on x86_64) may need to be swapped in.  Also, please verify that these installation paths fit with the various packages on your distribution!  Certain things may need to go to another location and I can't figure them out for you :)

'''SOLUTION:'''
'''Install the hotplug usbcam script.''' (from within the libgphoto2 checkout directory)
 {vim|pico|emacs|gedit|whatever} packaging/linux-hotplug/usbcam.group
 # be sure the GROUP variable is set to a group that you are a member of.
 # Traditionally I think this is left as camera, but your distribution may very.
 cp packaging/linux-hotplug/usbcam.group /etc/hotplug/usb/usbcam
 chmod +x /etc/hotplug/usb/usbcam

'''Install the USB hotplug system's userspace mapping.'''
 export HOTPLUG_USERMAP="/etc/hotplug/usb/usbcam-gphoto2.usermap"
 /usr/lib/libgphoto2/print-camera-list usb-usermap > $HOTPLUG_USERMAP

'''Install the HAL FDI entries.'''
 export HAL_FDI="/usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-camera-libgphoto2.fdi"
 /usr/local/lib/libgphoto2/print-camera-list hal-fdi > $HAL_FDI

===Installing Banshee from CVS===

Grab the latest CVS version of Banshee:

  cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@anoncvs.gnome.org:/cvs/gnome co -P banshee

'''NOTE:  this will change as Gnome is moving to Subversion (eventually).'''  If you're getting errors with this command, check out the [http://live.gnome.org/Subversion status of the subversion migration].  Ask in #banshee or #gnome for help!

Finally, run autogen.  Pass <code>--enable-mtp</code>:

  ./autogen.sh --enable-mtp --whatever-other-flags-you-usually-use

If you've never built Banshee from source before, and are using a standard gstreamer installation...use:

  ./autogen.sh --enable-mtp

That should do the trick.  Finally, make Banshee and install it:

  make && sudo make install

==Moving further==

===Testing it out===

First, check out the [[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Known Bugs|Known Bugs]] page.  PLEASE, read this page!

It's not that hard to run Banshee.  Execute banshee (preferrably from a terminal, with the '''--debug''' flag, in case you get an error).

Once Banshee has started up, plug your MTP device in.  As long as all is well, the interface will show a little loading message as it reads the track information from the device.  Once the message disappears, you should be ready to go!  Drag 'n drop some tracks on the device, and run a Synchronize to see if it works.  Not only can you drag mp3's, but also ogg and flac (and possibly even other formats) to the device and they will be transcoded and then transferred to the device.  In my experience this has been flawless.

Removing tracks from the device is easy.  Just right click the file and hit Remove, and then run Synchronize.

Editing of Metadata is possible, but has been disabled because of some strange conflicts and crashes with the CVS updates.  This will most likely be sorted out in the future.

Playback does not work at all.  It might someday, but not for now.

===Playlists===

Playlists don't work.  Not yet.  But, they're in the works...[[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Playlists|playlist]] support is coming...

===Reporting Bugs===

Please, by all means, report bugs.  There are so many possible bugs in this code that I just won't discover myself, and this can be a good piece of software if you help me out.  File bugs on the [http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=banshee&component=MTP Gnome Bugzilla, product banshee, component MTP].

===Sending Patches===

As with reporting bugs, patches are more than welcome.  I've been experiencing a few troubles, particularly with shutting down banshee after making a transfer.  I'm pretty sure that they're native-code related, but I have no clue where (as of yet).  Please post patches to bugzilla!

Also, check out [[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/Known Bugs|Known Bugs]] and the [[Projects/Open Source/Banshee/MTP/To Do|To Do]] list.

===Icons===

I'm working on some icons [[Projects/Open_Source/Banshee/MTP/Icons|here]].